>> Steve Kinney: So
now that we figured out how to add a post,
we're going to need to figure
out how to remove a post.
Otherwise this database is just
going to grow and grow and grow.
So, we're going to do
the traditional React way.
Right now, we are still doing the very
first React application, right.
Put everything in the application state.
Pass all the props down and find the
thing, and then pass everything back up.
And if you've ever developed like a large
enough React application you know that
that gets very tedious very quickly, and
also does have some performance issues
which is, that re-renders every
component on the way down.
So changing stuff, so on and so forth.
Right?
So we'll figure out better
ways to do that, but
first let's indulge in
the pain a little bit.
And, let's pass our way down to
that delete button on the post.
So, go back over here.
Here's the delete button.
Spoiler alert: we've got
the application component.
Then we've got the posts plural component,
then we've got the individual post
component, and
that's where the button lives.
So in order to change it
in the application state,
we're gonna have to pass all
that stuff all the way down.
We will eventually refactor that out,
but not yet.
[LAUGH] So let's go ahead and
let's get into it.
So, let's give ourselves a handleRemove
function in application.
>> Steve Kinney: And now we'll just take
the, we really just need the ID of it.
In order to get some stuff done here.
And let's start out with just
removing it from state first.
So we'll say const allPosts
= this.state.posts.
And because it's an array we just
basically need to get it out of the array.
The easiest way to do that is
to filter through the array, and
only keep the things that
are not the one with that ID.
>> Steve Kinney: So we'll take each
post and you're allowed to stay
if your Post ID it does not
equal the ID we're looking for.
So everyone else gets to stay but
the ID in question and
it is removed from the array.
And then we'll do this.setState.
>> Steve Kinney: posts.
Now that's not gonna remove it from.
Firestore, but it is going to go ahead and
remove it from state.
So let's get that wired up and
then we'll put in the ability
to remove it from Firestore.
So we have that.
The next thing we need to do is we need
to pass that to the post component.
So we'll do a onRemove,
this.handleRemove and
then that inside the post component,
that's now a prop.
We'll see how when we get to
wiring up subscriptions and
getting real time updates,
we can remove some of this code.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, because
Firebase does in the way that it works,
gives us a little bit of a different way
to think about how we manage state in
the application.
And eventually we're gonna actually move
to just using some very modern react state
techniques, and wire them up with Firebase
as well, which I'm kinda excited about.
So I'm going to go into
the individual post.
We've passed down that on remove.
>> Steve Kinney: And so
we'll find that delete button.
And we'll say, hey,
when someone clicks it,
>> Steve Kinney: Call that method.
Pass it the ID of the one in question.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and it deletes each
one, we refresh, they're all still there
because we're not actually deleting
them from Firestore just yet.
So we need to handle that as well and
that's actually fairly easy to do,
right, with another method.
And so what we'll see is we can go
back over into the application.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll say, await
>> Steve Kinney: firestore.document,
or .doc in this case.
Now, before I was using
the .collection.doc.
This one, I'm just gonna use the
shorthand, mostly to demonstrate it, and
we'll say, go ahead and
find me the document with that ID,
and we'll call delete on it.
Right, and
that will remove it from the database.
>> Steve Kinney: So we remove it from the
database and then we're gonna go ahead and
also remove it from the application state.
And this will work,
I think one of them has a slight bug
when I have the Date.Now() in their.
We'll find out together.
>> Steve Kinney: Think two out of
three of them will go away, yeah.
The other one has its own ID field,
so if I get rid of that.
>> Steve Kinney: We can
delete that one as well.
>> Steve Kinney: Now you can
see that they're all deleted.
Awesome.